everyone needs compassion
a love that 's never failing
let mercy fall on me
everyone needs forgiveness
a kindness of a savior
the hope of nations
savior 
he can move the mountains
my god is mighty to save
he is mighty to save
forever , author of salvation
he rose and conquered the grave
jesus conquered the grave
so take me as you find me
all my fears and failures
fill my life again
i give my life to follow
everything i believe in
now i surrender
yes , i surrender
savior 
he can move the mountains
my god is mighty to save
he is mighty to save
forever , author of salvation
he rose and conquered the grave
jesus conquered the grave
shine your light and
let the whole world see
we 're singing for the glory
of the risen king , jesus
shine your light and
let the whole world see
we 're singing for the glory
of the risen king
savior 
he can move the mountains
my god is mighty to save
he is mighty to save
forever , author of salvation
he rose and conquered the grave
jesus conquered the grave
you 're my savior
you can move the mountains
god , you are mighty to save
you are mighty to save
forever , author of salvation
you rose and conquered the grave
jesus , you conquered the grave
you are mighty to save
hello again .
the topic that i would like to discuss today
is this notion that deaf people in fact
pose an economic burden on society .
i believe that to be a fallacy as a deaf person
that we somehow create an environment
where lots of money is being spent on us as a population .
if we look to the world health organization ,
we know them to be leaders in gathering data
throughout the world .
on their website i was able to find information
that pertains particularly to how they view deaf people .
they view us as being deviant in many ways .
but interesting , i came across a quote that speaks
to the fact that as a population ,
we are in fact an economic burden on society .
and again , this is a source that 's very reputable
and looked to from people around the world .
that particular quote led me to look at the amount
of money that 's actually spent in creating
this economic burden if you will .
in my research , i found four social institutions
that lead to and support this notion
that deaf people being economic burdens .
the first is the area of research ,
second is technology ,
and third , special education .
deaf education is of course a part
of the overall special education system .
and lastly social welfare systems ,
security security and vr being a couple of examples .
so i want to talk today about how money is spent
in these four social institutions ,
and then present to you a different perspective
on our being an economic burden on society .
interesting to see , that as an individual
about $ 300,000 is spent on a person who is deaf .
if you add that up times the number of deaf people
in the world , we can see almost a million dollars
that is being spent on people who are deaf .
i really have to question those numbers
and understand exactly how this money is spent and why .
which leads me to the discussion
of my first social institution .
research has been done in many different areas .
always with the goal of normalizing people who are deaf .
there is this notion that deaf people are somehow deviant
from the norm , that we 're markedly different
from that norm and it 's important
that we be normalized so we 're like everyone else .
quote , unquote normal .
but does anyone know what normal means ?
and is it worthwhile spending all kinds of money
to ensure that we become normal citizens ?
those are the kind of questions
that i 'll be addressing in my talk today .
if we look at the amount of money that 's spent on research ,
we can look at fy2013 budget numbers
to better understand the exact amount .
the national institutes of health , nih ,
focuses primarily on the research of people who are deaf
with communication disorders being their focus .
the head of that research unit shared publicly
their appreciation of receiving funding in fy13
that amounted to $ 400 million .
$ 400 million that having been spent
on fixing genetic deafness and looking at
various auditory and neurological ways
to restore people
to a state of normalcy who are deaf .
so remember that number .
$ 400 million .
let 's move to the next social institution .
let me go back a moment to research .
the whole purpose of these fundings being spent
on research is to find deaf infants identified early on
at birth and to immediately intervene in their lives
by spending money
to get them to a state of being hearing or normal .
this is something that the director
of the research center actually stated as being the goal .
so now onto the next social institution .
the second is one is technology .
we know that for cochlear implants , the cost for adults
is $ 40,000 and $ 20,000 for children .
that does n't include all kinds of rehabilitation
and speech training .
and it varies by individual ,
and i do n't have a specific
in terms of the number of individuals
who have been implanted ,
but we can imagine the numbers that are out there today ,
multiplied by $ 20,000- $ 40,000 each .
we can get a sense of the amount of money spent
on this technology , all again with one specific purpose .
and that purpose being doing everything possible
to normalize individuals who are deaf
so they can be in the line of what is normal .
within the range of normalcy .
so these funds are being spent to fix individuals ,
to provide them with technologies
to make them normal .
let 's move onto the third social institution .
that being education .
the department of education website has budget
reported and it is public information .
and on that budget , i was able to take a look
